So now that we've talked
about terminal operations
at least enough to kind of
understand how you use them,
though perhaps not how
to implement things
like collectors as we'll
talk about later, let's now
turn our attention to a
bunch of different examples
that illustrate how
to use all the things
we've talked about so far.
So the examples we're
going to talk about here
are going to illustrate how
to use the various factory
methods, the various
intermediate operations,
and some of the
terminal operations
that we've talked about to
do various interesting things
in the context of our
WordSearcher class
from our simple search
stream case study.
So we're going to
start out by looking
at the aggregate
operations, which is just
a fancy way of saying the
intermediate operations
and the terminal
operations, that
are part of the simple
search streams WordSearcher
printResult method.
So what printResult does
is it prints the index
locations of any
and all the words
that are found in the input.
So in this particular
case, recall
that the simple search
stream program was reading
in the lyrics to the do, re,
mi song from The Sound of Music
movie, and then it was
going to go look up words
like do, re, mi, and so on.
And the output when
we print the results
will be the index
locations, the indices,
where those words appeared
in the input string.
And as you can see here
that just kind of what
the output looks like.
If you recall, we
used that we're
going to be showing some
cool examples later talking
about how we're going to use
various collectors to give us
that cool formatting.
This particular method and what
we're going to walk through
will showcase the collect and
grouping by terminal operation,
as well as some other
intermediate operations.
So before we look at
the code in detail,
let's first visualize
what this program looks
like as it's running.
If you were to step
back and be able to look
into the memory of the machine
with some kind of visualizer,
this is what it would look like.
So recall that the
search results here--
we get a list of
search results--
are the places in
the input string
where the words we're
looking for occur.
So that's a list
of search results.
So we take a list of
search results in.
We convert that list
of search results
into a stream of search results.
So now we have a stream
of search results.
And this stream
of search results
is then fed as input into the
collect terminal operation.
So again, this is one of those
interesting examples where
we have a program that just
goes straight from the stream
factory method into
a terminal operation.
And what collect is
going to do, of course,
is it'll trigger the processing.
In this case, there are no
intermediate operations.
But it'll start pulling the
data from the data source,
and then it will go ahead
and group things accordingly.
And we'll see how it's
going to group everything
when we look at this
in a bit more detail.
What it's going to
do is it's going
to create a map because
groupingBy creates a map.
And the map will group
words with the indices
where they were found.
So we'll basically
end up with a map
that maps strings, namely the
words, to lists of the search
results result objects.
Now, what comes out of
this is a map of strings
and lists of search results.
That's what's in the map.
And what we're going to do
then is we're going to apply
the forEach method-- and we'll
talk in a second about which
forEach method
this actually is--
in order to be able to
print out all the results.
So the forEach method is
going to iterate through all
the key value pairs in the map.
And it will call the
printResult method reference
in order to print it.
Now, the thing to note here
is that this forEach method
is the maps forEach method,
not the streams forEach method.
And that's because up here,
we terminated the stream
with our call to collect,
used groupingBy to make a map,
and then we went ahead and used
our fluent interface to call
the forEach method on that map.
So it can sometimes be
a little bit unclear
when you just look at a
stream at first glance
whether the methods are
for stream operations
or for map operations.
It doesn't really
matter at some level.
They get the same result.
They iterate through
and apply some method
reference with a side effect.
But you might in practice
want to break this up
to avoid having to
fluently glom on forEach
after the result of collect.
You might want to store collect
into a local variable called
map or something like
result map or something
and then say resultMap.forEach.
That could be a little bit more
clear to the casual reader.
But I didn't do
that here because I
didn't want to make
my slide any more
complicated than it already is.
Now, as we talked about
before, the forEach method
doesn't return any results.
It simply has a side effect.
And the side effect here
is to print out the results
to the standard output.